.TH AI-BS-VM "1" "February 2014" "ai-bs-vm" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-bs-vm \- Command-line tool to create Puppetized OpenStack VMs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-bs-vm"
[OPTION]...
\fI-g HOSTGROUP\fR
\fI-i IMAGE\fR | \fI--slc5\fR | \fI --slc6\fR | \fI --cc7\fR
| \fI--nova-boot-from-existing-volume VOLUMEID\fR
[FQDN]

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-bs-vm is a Python command line tool to create Puppet-managed
Foreman-enabled OpenStack VMs.
.LP
The FQDN must be defined within the cern.ch domain and subdomains can be
specified provided that they are no more than 64 characters long. If the input
does not look like an FQDN, ai-bs-vm will append .cern.ch to it. Please don't
use subdomains unless you're very sure about what you're doing.
.LP
If no FQDN is specified a random one will be generated based on a trimmed SHA1
hashed UNIX timestamp and using cern.ch as its domain. The length is limited to
60 characters (prefix included). Using a prefix is recommended (see --prefix).
.LP
The officially supported images are: CC7 Base, SLC6 Base,
SLC6 Server and SLC5 Server, which contain a base system ready to be
managed by Puppet.
.LP
"SLCx CERN Server", "SLCx Extra" and "CC7 Extra" ones \fBare not supported\fR.
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B OpenStack environment variables
The following environment variables must be set: OS_AUTH_URL,
OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION, OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_ID, OS_PROJECT_NAME and
OS_AUTH_TYPE. All of them should be already configured via profile.d if you're
on an aiadm node, giving you access by default to your personal project. In
order to switch tenants the recommended way is to use ai-rc (man ai-rc).
.TP
.B ""
This command is only compatible with OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION=3 and
OS_AUTH_TYPE='v3kerberos'. Please also note that OS_AUTH_URL has to be aligned
to the identity API version that has been specified. Sourcing legacy
password-based OpenRCs might lead to a corrupted environment that could prevent
this tool from working as expected.
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.SH OPTIONS
The behaviour of the tool can be customized by the following
parameters. In order to keep backwards compatibility with older
versions of ai-bs-vm, some of them can also be set via environment
variables (in parenthesis):

.LP
.I Mandatory parameters:
.TP
.B -g, --foreman-hostgroup (AIBS_HOSTGROUP_NAME)
Name of the Foreman hostgroup where you want your new virtual
machine to land (beware that you must be hostgroup manager of it).
.TP
.B --nova-boot-from-existing-volume
Cinder Volume UUID to boot from. Format is '<volume UUID>[:delete-on-terminate]'
where 'delete-on-terminate' is an optional flag that indicates that the
volume will be deleted when the VM is destroyed. In order to boot from
an existing volume, it has to be bootable and available (it will fail in any
other case). This parameter is mutually exclusive with { '--nova-image' | '--slc5'
| '--slc6' | '--cc7' | '--nova-boot-from-new-volume' } as only one bootable element
can be specified per VM. (see http://cern.ch/go/l9xP)
.TP
.B -i, --nova-image (AIBS_VMIMAGE_NAME)
OpenStack image name of the virtual machine (get a list from 'openstack image list').
This parameter is mutually exclusive with
{ '--slc5' | '--slc6' | '--cc7' | '--nova-boot-from-existing-volume' }.
.TP
.B --slc5, --slc6, --cc7
Latest released OpenStack image for the particular distribution. These
parameteres are mutually exclusive with { '--nova-image'
| '--nova-boot-from-existing-volume' }.
.LP
Although the synopsis indicates that -g and -i are mandatory
parameters, both will become optional if the values are passed via
the corresponding environment variables.

.LP
.I Optional parameters:
.TP
.B --config
Path to the config file (default /etc/ai/aitools.conf).
.TP
.B --foreman-environment (AIBS_ENVIRONMENT_NAME)
Name of the Foreman environment you want your new virtual
machine to join (defaults to "production").
.TP
.B --foreman-parameter
Parameter to be added to the host in Foreman (format: key=value,
example: network=23). This option can be specified several times.
.TP
.B --landb-mainuser (AIBS_LANDB_MAINUSER)
E-group name to be set as main user in LANDB. If not specified
the user creating the VM is set as main user (Grizzly and onwards
only). Foreman owner will be set accordingly later on.
.TP
.B --landb-responsible (AIBS_LANDB_RESPONSIBLE)
E-group name to be set as responsible in LANDB. If not specified
the user creating the VM is set as responsible (Grizzly and onwards
only). Foreman owner will be set accordingly later on.
.TP
.B --nova-availabilityzone (AIBS_VMAVAILZONE_NAME)
The desired availability zone for the VM (see http://cern.ch/go/FG7w).
.TP
.B --nova-attach-existing-volume
Attach a volume during boot time. The format is '<device>=<volume UUID>[:delete-on-terminate]'.
The volume will be attached in '/dev/<device>'. It's possible to specify an optional flag
called 'delete-on-terminate' that indicates that the volume will be deleted when
the VM is destroyed. In order to attach a volume it must be 'available'.
This option can be specified several times but it is not possible to attach the
same volume more than once nor attach several volumes to the same device.
.TP
.B --nova-attach-new-volume
Create a volume to be attached during boot time.
The format is \'<device>=<size>[:delete-on-terminate][:type=string]\', where
\'size\' is represented as "XGB" or "XTB", being X an integer larger than 0 and
\'delete-on-terminate\' an optional flag that indicates that the volume will be
deleted when the VM is destroyed. It's also possible to optionally specify the
volume type via the "type" parameter. The volume will be attached in
\'/dev/<device>\'.  This option can be specified several times but it is not
possible to attach several volumes to the same device.
.TP
.B --nova-boot-from-new-volume
Create a volume from an image and boot from there.
The format is \'<size>[:delete-on-terminate][:type=string]\', where \'size\' is
represented as "XGB" or "XTB", being X an integer larger than 0 and
\'delete-on-terminate\' an optional flag that indicates that the volume will be
deleted when the VM is destroyed. It's also possible to optionally specify the
volume type via the \'type\' parameter. In order to create a bootable volume
{ --nova-image | --slc5 | --slc6 | --cc7 } must be specified.  This parameter
is mutually exclusive with "--nova-boot-from-existing-volume", as only one bootable
element can be specified per VM. (see http://cern.ch/go/l9xP)
.TP
.B --nova-flavor (AIBS_VMFLAVOR_NAME)
OpenStack flavor name of the virtual machine (defaults to "m1.small").
.TP
.B --nova-sshkey (AIBS_SSHKEY_NAME)
Name of the SSH key to login into the machine as root in case of
disaster. Use Horizon or 'openstack keypair create' to generate a new keypair
[string]. Because of the security implications this option has, it's
strongly recommended to avoid it. Your new VM will have the Kerberos
module enabled by default, use it to configure who has root access
to the box. See http://cern.ch/go/7qW6
.TP
.B --prefix (AIBS_VMNAME_PREFIX)
Prefix to prepend to the randomly generated hostname (defaults to "vm").
.LP
.I Other optional parameters:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.
.TP
.B --certmgr-hostname (AIBS_CASERVER_HOSTNAME)
Hostname of the Cert Manager server that the virtual machine will request a certificate from
from.
.TP
.B --certmgr-port
Port of the Cert Manager server that the virtual machine will request a certificate from
from.
.TP
.B --certmgr-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Cert Manager operations.
.TP
.B -d, --dryrun
Don't do the requests that alter data (Foreman registration, host staging
and VM creation request).
.TP
.B --foreman-hostname
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
.B --foreman-port
Port of the Foreman instance to use -- must support Kerberos.
.TP
.B --foreman-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations.
.TP
.B --grow-partition
Partition of the image disk (/dev/vda) to grow (default: 2).
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.TP
.B --nogrow
Don't grow the image disk (/dev/vda) after the Puppet initialization.
.TP
.B --noreboot
Don't reboot after the Puppet initialization.
.TP
.B --nova-parameter
Parameter to be passed to Nova as metaparameter (format: key=value,
example: network=23). This option can be specified several times.
.TP
.B --nova-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Openstack operations.
.TP
.B --puppetmaster-hostname (AIBS_PUPPETMASTER_HOSTNAME)
Hostname of the Puppet master the virtual machine will request its
configuration from (defaults to "it-puppet-masters-public.cern.ch").
.TP
.B --puppetinit-path
Path to the template to generate the script to initialize the Puppet
environment that will be part of the userdata
sent to the virtual machine (defaults to "/usr/share/ai-tools/userdata/puppetinit").
.TP
.B --roger-appstate
Initial Roger application state (defaults to "build").
.TP
.B --roger-hostname
FQDN of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-port
Port of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Roger operations.
.TP
.B --userdata-dir
Directory containing fragments that will be attached to the userdata.
The name of the file will be used to set the Content-Type (see
http://cern.ch/go/C9hm).
.TP
.B --userdata-dump
File path to dump the userdata generated.
.TP
.B --dereference_alias
Dereference aliases in urls
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Be chatty.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 2
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 3
Bad user environment (no OpenStack's openrc.sh has been sourced)
.TP
.B 4
Kerberos TGT not-existent or expired.
.TP
.B 5
FQDN is invalid.
.TP
.B 6
Userdata generation failed.
.TP
.B 7
Userdata dump failed.
.TP
.B 10
Foreman registration failed.
.TP
.B 20
Host staging failed.
.TP
.B 30
Nova boot failed.
.TP
.B 40
Cinder volume operation failed.
.TP
.B 50
Openstack authorization error

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Create a named VM with default VM parameters and register it in hostgroup "foo/bar":
ai-bs-vm --foreman-hostgroup foo/bar --nova-image "SLC6 Server - x86_64 [130920]" higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Same but with custom environment:
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar -i "SLC6 Server - x86_64 [130920]" --foreman-environment qa higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Create a VM with the latest CC7 image available in hostgroup "foo/bar"
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar --cc7 higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Now with different VM flavor and SSH key:
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar -i "SLC6 Server - x86_64 [130920]"
--foreman-environment qa --nova-sshkey my-key --nova-flavor m1.large higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Create a VM with random hostname prefixed by "foo":
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar --slc6 --prefix foo

.TP
.B Create a VM booting from an existing volume:
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar -nova-boot-from-existing-volume 361a5315-aaa2-48dd-990b-235b660eb079

.TP
.B Create a VM by creating a volume using an image and booting from it:
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar -i "SLC6 Server - x86_64 [130920]" --nova-boot-from-new-volume 100GB higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Create a VM with an existing volume attached to /dev/vdb:
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar -i "SLC6 Server - x86_64 [130920]" --nova-attach-existing-volume vdb=8f7949d0-325d-4968-83b4-f12eb8b4619a higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Create a VM with a new volume of size 50GB attached to /dev/vdb which will be deleted when the VM is terminated:
ai-bs-vm -g foo/bar -i "SLC6 Server - x86_64 [130920]" --nova-attach-new-volume vdb=50GB:delete-on-terminate higgsbox.cern.ch

.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any problem with the Foreman registration or the initial
Puppet runs of your box, please open a support call on SNOW (Functional
Element "Configuration Management"). Check the state of your VM with
"openstack server show" before opening a ticket. If you can see the machine
in Foreman but the VM is in ERROR state then please assign the ticket
directly to "Cloud Infrastructure".

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-rebuild-vm (1), ai-kill-vm (1), ai-remote-power-control (1), ai-rc (1)
