.TH AI-CREATE-ENVIRONMENT-METADATA "1" "March 2014" "ai-create-environment-metadata" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-create-environment-metadata \- Helper tool to create Puppet environment definitions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-create-environment-metadata -e ENVIRONMENT -n EMAIL [OPTIONS]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-create-environment-metadata is a command line tool to create YAML
Puppet environment definitions to be consumed by the Puppet masters.
.LP
With it you can basically define what is the default branch and add overrides
for modules and top-level hostgroups. The output is a YAML file ready to be
added, committed and pushed to a topic branch. Instructions to follow on how
to do this are printed on the screen.
.LP
After some minutes once the merge request has been validated and automerged,
the new environment will show up in Foreman.
.LP
Snapshots (static environments) are also supported.
.LP
More information: http://configdocs.web.cern.ch/configdocs/details/environments.html

.TP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Working directory
The current directory must be a clone of it-puppet-environments (see the
link above for more details)

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-environment ENVIRONMENT\fR
Name of the environment to be created (must contain only alphanumeric
characters and underscore).
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-notifications EMAIL\fR
Email address to sent notifications to in case of necessity.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-default NAME\fR
Use NAME as default branch (defaults to 'master') for
dynamic environments.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-module MODULE:BRANCH\fR
Add an override for module MODULE to use branch BRANCH.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-hostgroup HOSTGROUP:BRANCH\fR
Add an override for top-level hostgroup HOSTGROUP to use branch BRANCH.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-snapshot BASE\fR
Create a snapshot (static environment) based on BASE environment.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable debug messages.

.TP
Bear in mind that --default and --snapshot are mutually exclusive.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Environment definition file created.
.TP
.B 2
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 3
The working directory is not a clone of it-puppet-environments.
.TP
.B 4
The environment already exists.
.TP
.B 5
The environment name does not follow the rules.
.TP
.B 6
One or more invalid module overrides.
.TP
.B 7
One or more invalid hostgroup overrides.
.TP
.B 8
Couldn't open the output file for writing.
.TP
.B 9
Couldn't find the environment to base the snapshot on

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create dynamic environment \fBafs_ai123\fR overriding module \fBafs\fR:
$ ai-create-environment-metadata -e afs_ai123 -n afs-admins@cern.ch -m afs:ai123
.TP
Create dynamic environment \fBbi_afs_ai123\fR overriding module \fBafs\fR and hostgroup \fBbi\fR:
$ ai-create-environment-metadata -e bi_afs_ai123 -n batch-operations@cern.ch -m afs:ai123 -g bi:ai123
.TP
Create snapshot (static environment) \fBsuperfrozen\fR based on environment \fBqa\fR:
$ ai-create-environment-metadata -e superfrozen -n batch-operations@cern.ch -s qa

.SH BUGS
Any problem? Open a support call on SNOW
(Functional Element "Configuration Management").

.SH AUTHOR
Nacho Barrientos <nacho.barrientos@cern.ch>
