.TH ai-disownhost "1" "April 2015" "ai-disownhost" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-disownhost \- Command-like tool to "give back" a physical host

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-disownhost" [OPTIONS] HOSTNAME [HOSTNAME ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-disownhost is a Python command line tool to do all the necessary
steps to get rid of a physical box.

.LP
Once executed, this tool will perform the following steps:

.LP
* Move the box to a special hostgroup
.LP
* Disable all alarms and change the appstate to "disabled"
.LP
* Change the LANDB responsible

These operations are aimed to leave the box prepared so the procurement
and the sysadmins teams can inspect, evaluate and either repurpose or
retire the box afterwards.

Once finished, the box will be reinstalled and all the disks wiped in the
next few hours.

.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.TP
.B Your CERN password
As this tool interacts with LANDB and it does not provide a Kerberos
entrypoint, you will be prompted for your CERN password.

.SH OPTIONS
The behaviour of the tool can be customised by the following
parameters:

.TP
.B -d, --dryrun
Don't do the requests that alter data.

.TP
.B --foreman-hostname
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use.

.TP
.B --foreman-port
Port of the Foreman instance to use -- must support Kerberos.

.TP
.B --foreman-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations.

.TP
.B -g, --hostgroup HOSTGROUP
The Foreman hostgroup where the machine will be moved.
Defaults to "retirement/incoming".

.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.

.TP
.B --landb-hostname
FQDN of the Landb instance to use.

.TP
.B --landb-port
Port of the Landb instance to use.

.TP
.B -o, --owner E-GROUP
The LANDB responsible to be set. Defaults to "sysadmin-team".

.TP
.B --roger-hostname
FQDN of the Roger instance to use.

.TP
.B --roger-port
Port of the Roger instance to use -- must support Kerberos.

.TP
.B --roger-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Roger operations.

.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Be chatty.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.B Disown hosts foo.cern.ch and bar.cern.ch
ai-disownhost foo.cern.ch bar.cern.ch

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 2
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 4
Kerberos TGT not-existent or expired.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any problem when using this tool, please open a support
call on SNOW (Functional Element "Configuration Management").

.SH AUTHORS
Nacho Barrientos <nacho.barrientos@cern.ch>

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-remote-power-control (1), ai-foreman (1)
