.TH AI-FOREMAN "1" "March 2015" "ai-foreman" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-foreman \- Command-line tool to perform CRUD operations on Foreman entries

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-foreman"
[COMMON_OPTION]...
SUBCOMMAND
[SUBCOMMAND_OPTION]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-foreman is a Python command line tool to manage Foreman entries.
.LP
The command line is composed by common options to all subcommands,
the subcommand itself and the subcommand-specific options.
.LP
One of the most typical daily operations that can easily be carried out
with this tool is for instance modifying the hostgroup or the environment
of a set of machines on the command line.
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

The available subcommands are: addhost, addhostgroup, delhost, delhostgroup, showhost and updatehost.
You're most likely only interested in the last two.

.SH OPTIONS
The behaviour of the tool can be customised by the following
parameters:

.LP
.I Common options:

This section covers the primary common options, which are basically the ones
used to filter hosts to afterwards apply an action to. The less popular flags are
described below in a different section.

It's legal to use filtering options with either of the subcommands but they
will only take effect when it makes sense to use them (for instance,
they will all be ignored when passed along the addhost subcommand)

They're all mutually exclusive, however they can be combined with a explicit
host list whenever the subcommand accepts it. Take a look to the EXAMPLES
section to see how this can be achieved.

.TP
.B -f, --filter FILTER
String containing a Foreman filter to discover hosts. The syntax is the same
as one would use on the Foreman user interface. Examples: "environment = qa",
"hostgroup_fullname ~ foo/bar and facts.is_virtual = False".

.TP
.B -g, --hg HOSTGROUP
Select hosts that are member of HOSTGROUP. This option is effectively an alias
for --filter "hostgroup_fullname = HOSTGROUP".

.TP
.B -l, --hl HOSTGROUP
Select hosts that are member of a hostgroup that looks like HOSTGROUP.
This option is an alias for --filter "hostgroup_fullname ~ HOSTGROUP".

.TP
.B --only-error
Only select hosts that are in error state. The generated query is equivalent
to the one sent to Foreman when browsing the dashboard view and clicking
"hosts in error state".

.TP
.B --only-oos
Only select hosts that are out of sync. The generated query is equivalent
to the one sent to Foreman when browsing the dashboard view and clicking
"out of sync hosts".


.\""""""""""
.\" ADDHOST
.\""""""""""

.LP
.I Addhost options:

Please note that some of the following options are mandatory and the tool will
refuse to continue if they're not present.

.TP
.B -a, --architecture ARCHITECTURE
Architecture name for the new host(s). Example: "x86_64".

.TP
.B -c, --hostgroup HOSTGROUP
Hostgroup name for the new host(s). Example: "foo/bar".

.TP
.B --comment COMMENT
Comment for the new host(s).

.TP
.B -e, --environment ENVIRONMENT
Environment name for the new host(s). Example: "qa".

.TP
.B -i, --input INPUTFILE
Use INPUTFILE as source of information about the hosts being added. The
default value for this option is STDIN. Example: see INPUT FORMAT.

.TP
.B -m, --medium MEDIUM
Medium name for the new host(s). Example "CentOS mirror".

.TP
.B -o, --operatingsystem OS
Operating system name and version for the new host(s). Example "CentOS 7.0".

.TP
.B -p, --ptable PTABLE
Partition table name for the new host(s). Example "Kickstart default".

.TP
.B -r, --reset
When this switch is enabled, the CLI will try to delete existing entries
before creating new ones.

.\""""""""""
.\" ADDHOSTGROUP
.\""""""""""

.LP
.I Addhostgroup options:

.TP
.B [HOSTGROUP]...
A list of hostgroups to create. Example: "foo/bar"

.TP
.B -p, --parents PARENTS
Create parent hostgroups if they don't exist yet.


.\""""""""""
.\" DELHOST
.\""""""""""

.LP
.I Delhost options:

.TP
.B [HOSTNAME]...
A list of hostnames (qualified or not) to delete. This option can be combined
with a filtering option of your choice.


.\""""""""""
.\" DELHOSTGROUP
.\""""""""""

.LP
.I Delhostgroup options:

.TP
.B [HOSTGROUP]...
A list of hostgroups to remove. This subcommand will never delete hostgroups if it
finds any host when traversing the hostgroup tree, regardless of the presence of
-r flag. Example: "foo/bar"

.TP
.B -r, -R, --recursive RECURSIVE
Remove the hostgroup and its children recursively.


.\""""""""""
.\" SHOWHOST
.\""""""""""

.LP
.I Showhost options:

.TP
.B [HOSTNAME]...
A list of hostnames (qualified or not) to show. This option can be combined
with a filtering option of your choice.


.\"""""""""""""
.\" UPDATEHOST
.\"""""""""""""

.LP
.I Update options:

.TP
.B --after
Fetch hosts again after the update and print a summary table. This operation
is typically quite slow.

.TP
.B -a, --architecture ARCHITECTURE
Architecture name for the host(s). Example: "x86_64".

.TP
.B -c, --hostgroup HOSTGROUP
Hostgroup name for the host(s). Example: "foo/bar".

.TP
.B --comment COMMENT
Comment for the host(s).

.TP
.B -e, --environment ENVIRONMENT
Environment name for the host(s). Example: "qa".

.TP
.B --ip
IP address for the host(s). Example: "127.0.0.1"

.TP
.B --mac
MAC address for the host(s). Example: "AA:CC:BE:BE:CA:FE"

.TP
.B -m, --medium MEDIUM
Medium name for the host(s). Example "CentOS mirror".

.TP
.B -o, --operatingsystem OS
Operating system name and version for the host(s). Example "CentOS 7.0".

.TP
.B -p, --ptable PTABLE
Partition table name for the host(s). Example "Kickstart default".

.TP
.B [HOSTNAME]...
A list of hostnames (qualified or not) to update. This option can be combined
with a filtering option of your choice.

.LP
.I Other common options:

.TP
.B -d, --dryrun
Don't do the requests that alter data.

.TP
.B --foreman-hostname
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use.

.TP
.B --foreman-port
Port of the Foreman instance to use -- must support Kerberos.

.TP
.B --foreman-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations.

.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.

.TP
.B --no-color
Switch colourised outputs off.

.TP
.B --no-header
Switch table headers off.

.TP
.B --longtable
When showing summary tables, add some extra columns with additional information
(Architecture, Model, Ptable, Comment, Last Report).  Please note that the Last
Report date for hosts with no reports is represented by the UNIX epoch to allow
sorting by this field.

.TP
.B -s, --sort FIELD
When showing summary tables, sort by column FIELD. Accepted fields are:
Name, Hostgroup, Environment, OS, Arch, Model, Ptable and Last Report.

.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Be chatty.

.TP
.B -z, --field FIELD
When showing summary tables, only print this column. This option can
be specified several times and it's not compatible with --longtable.

.SH INPUT FORMAT
When adding hosts, this tool consumes a text file in which there must
be one host described in each line. Each record must contain either 3
or 7 blank-separated fields as follows:

fqdn ip mac ipmi_fqdn ipmi_mac ipmi_user ipmi_passwd

The last four are optional, allowing registrations of machines without
an IPMI interface. The IP address of this interface will be resolved
using DNS. Dashes to separate bytes of MAC addresses will be automatically
translated into colons.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.B Show extended information about host "foo.cern.ch"
ai-foreman --longtable showhost foo.cern.ch

.TP
.B Show information about hosts in hostgroup "foo/bar" sorted by environment
ai-foreman -g foo/bar --sort Environment showhost

.TP
.B Show information about virtual hosts in environment "qa"
ai-foreman -f "facts.is_virtual = True and environment = qa" showhost

.TP
.B Change the operating system of a couple of hosts:
ai-foreman updatehost -o "SLC 6.6" -m "SLC" baz.cern.ch sugar.cern.ch

.TP
.B Update the hostgroup of hosts which hostgroup looks like "pants/2" and "bar.cern.ch"
ai-foreman -l "pants/2" updatehost bar.cern.ch --hostgroup pants/1

.TP
.B Delete all CASTOR ATLAS hosts
ai-foreman -l castor/c2atlas delhost

.TP
.B Create "playground/foo/bar" making all parents recursively if needed.
ai-foreman addhostgroup -p playground/foo/bar

.TP
.B Delete "playground/foo/bar". As -r is not passed, this will fail if the hostgroup has any children (or hosts).
ai-foreman delhostgroup playground/foo/bar

.TP
.B Delete "playground/foo/bar" and all children recursively.
ai-foreman delhostgroup -r playground/foo/bar

.SH FAQ

.B Why is the CLI returning "not found" for hosts that actually exist?
.LP
Unfortunately, the Foreman API retuns 404 when an object cannot be read
with the presented credentials, regardless of the existence of the object.

.B Some hosts don't appear in the summary table when using showhost, why?
.LP
When requesting data for a static list of hosts (not using filters),
the CLI groups them and uses combined search queries instead of iterating
over all hosts one by one for efficiency reasons. Due to this, the CLI
won't print any error messages for hosts that don't exist or that you
cannot see with your credentials. This might sound odd but bear with us
that the speed increase pays off.

.B Where's the installhost subcommand?
.LP
Please type man ai-installhost.

.B When updating the operating system of a given host, why is Foreman
.B complaining about the medium?
.LP
Operating systems have media associated to them and a correct one
has to be set by passing -m/--medium too. See EXAMPLES.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Some operations that modify data failed.
.TP
.B 2
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 4
Kerberos TGT not-existent or expired.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any problem when using this tool, please open a support
call on SNOW (Functional Element "Configuration Management").

.SH AUTHORS
Nacho Barrientos <nacho.barrientos@cern.ch>

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-remote-power-control (1), ai-bs-vm (1)
