.TH AI-HIERA "1" "January 2014" "ai-hiera" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-hiera \- Command-line tool to do plain-text Hiera lookups

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-hiera"
[OPTION]...
\fIKEY\fR [KEY]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-hiera is a Python command line tool wrapping PuppetLabs's Hiera
CLI that adds extra logic to get all the necessary information to
do the look-ups from external data sources (such as Foreman).

.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.SH OPTIONS
The behaviour of the tool can be customized by the following
parameters. 

.LP
.I Optional parameters:
.TP
.B -a, --array
Do the lookup in array mode (the resolution won't stop after finding
the first matching element).
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.TP
.B -n, --node
Node name to base the generation of all the resolution environment
on (variables such as hostgroup, environment and facts). Non fully
qualified names are allowed, but the FQDNfication depends on the
local configuration of the resolver.
(defaults to the FQDN where this command is executed).
.TP
.B -m, --module
Simulates that the lookup is done in a context of the module passed
via this parameter.
.TP
.B -s, --hash
To the lookup in hash mode.

.LP
.I Other optional parameters:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.
.TP
.B --hiera-config
Hiera configuration file (defaults to "/etc/puppet/hiera.yaml")
.TP
.B --foreman-environment
This option overrides the environment fetched from Foreman
for the given node.
.TP
.B --foreman-hostgroup
This option overrides the hostgroup fetched from Foreman
for the given node.
.TP
.B --foreman-hostname
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use (defaults to "judy.cern.ch").
.TP
.B --foreman-port
Port of the Foreman instance to use -- must support Kerberos (defaults to 8443).
.TP
.B --foreman-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations (default: 15).
.TP
.B -t, --trace
Prints out how the hierarchy is traversed. Useful to know exactly
where the value is coming from.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Be chatty.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 10
Foreman call failed.
.TP
.B 20
Hiera call failed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Resolve key 'osrepos_repository_date' for node 'lxplus0108.cern.ch'
ai-hiera --node lxplus0108.cern.ch osrepos_repository_date

.TP
.B Resolve key 'castor_conf' for node 'lxfsrb6207.cern.ch' in hash mode and show the full trace
ai-hiera --hash --trace --node lxfsrb6207.cern.ch castor_conf

.TP
.B Resolve key 'lemonsensor_url' for node 'lxplus0108.cern.ch' with lemon module enabled.
ai-hiera -n lxplus0108.cern.ch lemonsensor_url --module lemon

.TP
.B Resolve keys 'sssd::min_id' and 'cvmfs_quota_limit' for node 'lxplus0108.cern.ch'
ai-hiera -n lxplus0108.cern.ch sssd::min_id cvmfs_quota_limit

.SH KNOWN BUGS
None so far.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any problem with this tool, please open a support 
call on SNOW (Functional Element "Configuration Management"). 

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-pdb (1), ai-bs-vm (1), ai-kill-vm (1), ai-remote-power-control (1)
