.TH AI-INSTALLHOST "1" "July 2014" "ai-installhost" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-installhost \- Command-line tool to prepare installations of physical
machines

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-installhost"
[OPTION]...
\fIFQDN\fR [FQDN]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-installhost is a command line utility to prepare physical machines
for installation. The output is a summary table informing about which
input hosts are ready to be rebooted (or have been rebooted, if --reboot
is passed)

Note that by default this command will disable all alarms on the target
hosts. This behaviour can be overridden, though. See below.

Several command line options can be completed automatically by pressing
TAB when typing.

.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.SH OPTIONS
The behaviour of the tool can be customized by the following
parameters. 

.LP
.I Optional parameters:
.TP
.B -a, --keepalarms
Don't disable alarms before triggering the installation.
.TP
.B --aims-kopts
Blank separated list of kernel options to be passed to Anaconda (will be
appended to the ones coming from HWDB).
.TP
.B -d, --dryrun
Don't do the requests that alter data (alarm state change, AIMS operations,
reboot...)
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.TP
.B -k, --keepks
Keeps all the generated Kickstart files on disk for further inspection
afterwards.
.TP
.B -c, --console STRING
Device to route the console output to. Defaults to "tty0".
.TP
.B -m, --mode STRING
Sets the boot mode. The possible options are: "auto", "bios", "bioslgcy",
"uefi" and "arm64" (man aims2client for more information). This option defaults
to "auto" which tries to guess the correct mode based on metadata available on
Foreman.
.TP
.B -r, --reboot
Power cycle the box via IPMI after everything is ready. Use with care.

.LP
.I Other optional parameters:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.
.TP
.B --aims-attempts
Number of times that the script will check is the boot status
is correct before giving up.
.TP
.B --certmgr-hostname (AIBS_CASERVER_HOSTNAME)
Hostname of the Cert Manager server that the virtual machine will request a certificate from
from.
.TP
.B --certmgr-port
Port of the Cert Manager server that the virtual machine will request a certificate from
from.
.TP
.B --certmgr-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Cert Manager operations.
.TP
.B --foreman-hostname
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use (defaults to "judy.cern.ch").
.TP
.B --foreman-port
Port of the Foreman instance to use -- must support Kerberos (defaults to 8443).
.TP
.B --foreman-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations (default: 15).
.TP
.B --report-to
Username to send the installation report to (defaults to Kerberos TGT principal).
.TP
.B --roger-appstate
Initial Roger application state (defaults to "build").
.TP
.B --roger-hostname
FQDN of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-message
Message to set when changing the machine state. (defaults to
"Installation triggered by ai-installhost")
.TP
.B --roger-port
Port of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Roger operations.
.TP
.B -t, --threads
Number of concurrent operations (defaults to the number of cores, with
a maximum of twice the default value).
.TP
.B --dereference_alias
Dereference aliases in urls
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Be chatty.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Some hosts are not ready to be installed. Check summary table.
.TP
.B 2
The command was CTRL-Ced
.TP
.B 4
Kerberos TGT not found or expired.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Prepare foo.cern.ch and bar.cern.ch for installation
ai-installhost foo.cern.ch bar.cern.ch

.TP
.B Same but keeping the autogenrated Kickstart files on disk
ai-installhost -k foo.cern.ch bar.cern.ch

.TP
.B Prepare foo.cern.ch for installation (UEFI mode)
ai-installhost foo.cern.ch --mode uefi

.TP
.B Prepare susanne.cern.ch for installation and reboot it
ai-installhost -r susanne.cern.ch

.SH ROLLING BACK
It is possible to undo the process of preparing a physical machine
for installation using the 'aims2client' command.

For instance, assuming that 'gijon01.cern.ch' was mistakenly processed
by ai-installhost, deleting the node from AIMS should suffice
to prevent it from PXE booting:

aims2client delhost gijon01

There's nothing to do of course if the machine has been rebooted using
this tool.

.SH KNOWN BUGS
This tool does not support hosts that are unable to PXE boot
from the main interface. For those cases, installations must
be triggered via ai-foreman-cli instead.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any problem with this tool, please open a support 
call on SNOW (Functional Element "Configuration Management"). 

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-remote-power-control (1), ai-foreman-cli (1)
