.TH AI-KILL-VM "1" "October 2013" "ai-kill-vm" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-kill-vm \- Command-line tool to destroy Puppet-managed OpenStack VMs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-kill-vm [OPTION]... HOSTNAME"

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-kill-vm is a Python command line tool to kill Puppet-managed Foreman-enabled
OpenStack VMs in CERN's context.
.LP
Apart from some of the options described below, the user has to
provide a hostname or a fully qualified domain name.
When necessary, this tool resolves the FQDN of the passed hostnames based on
the configuration of the local DNS resolver library (/etc/resolv.conf).
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B OpenStack credentials
Your OpenStack credentials are in place (get an \fBopenrc.sh\fR from
OpenStack Horizon and source it). By doing this you will set the OpenStack
instance you want to use and the project for your VM. The application
will prompt for the password if the user CTRL-Cs when the password
is requested by the openrc script. More info: http://cern.ch/go/k9hf
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --config
Path to the config file (default /etc/ai/ai.conf).
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.TP
.B -d, --dryrun
Don't do the requests that alter data.

.LP
.I Advanced options:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.

.TP
.B --nova-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Nova operations.
.TP
.B --foreman-hostname
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
.B --foreman-port
Port of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
.B --foreman-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations.
.TP
.B --roger-hostname
FQDN of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-port
Port of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Roger operations.
.TP
.B --dereference_alias
Dereference aliases in urls
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable debug messages.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 2
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 3
Bad user environment (no OpenStack's openrc.sh has been sourced)
.TP
.B 4
Kerberos TGT not-existent or expired.
.TP
.B 10
Nova deletion request failed
.TP
.B 20
Foreman delete operation failed

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Kill foo1.cern.ch
$ ai-kill-vm foo1.cern.ch

.LP
.I Combining it with Mcollective:

.TP
.B Destroy all VMs in hostgroup foo/bar
$ mco find -T foo -F hostgroup_0=foo -F hostgroup_1=bar | xargs -i 1 ai-kill-vm

.SH BUGS
Any problem? Open a support call on Jira
(https://its.cern.ch/jira/) project "Agile Infrastructure".

.SH AUTHOR
Nacho Barrientos <nacho.barrientos@cern.ch> 

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-bs-vm (1)
