.TH AI-MODULESYNC "5" "February 2017" "AI-MODULESYNC" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-modulesync \- Prepare GitLab repositories for continuous integration

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-modulesync (--all | -r REPOSITORY)"

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-modulesync is a tool to prepare GitLab repositories for continuous integration. It will create merge requests with the
latest test framework and configure the repositories adding the needed variables and deployment keys.
.LP
.TP
.I Effects:
.RS
.P
New modulesync branch created in each repository
.P
New merge request (modulesync -> qa)
.P
New CI variable created in each repository
.P
Deploy key AI CI Read Key enabled
.RE
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --all
Execute the job for every managed hostgroup and module.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR REPOSITORY
Execute the job for the repository specified with this option (it-puppet-...).
.TP
.B --config
Path to the config file (default /etc/ai/ai.conf).
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.LP
.I Advanced options:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.
.TP
\fB\-\-rundeck-hostname\fR FQDN
FQDN of the Rundeck instance to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-rundeck-port\fR PORT
Port of the Rundeck instance to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-rundeck-timeout\fR INT
Timeout (in seconds) for Rundeck operations.
.TP
.B --dereference_alias
Dereference aliases in urls
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable debug messages.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 3
Rundeck error
.TP
.B 10
Error loading config file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Prepare CI in all the managed modules
$ ai-modulesync --all

.TP
.B Prepare CI for it-puppet-module-foo repository
$ ai-modulesync -r it-puppet-module-foo


.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any problem with this tool, please open a support
call on SNOW (Functional Element "Configuration Management").

.SH AUTHOR
David Moreno García <david.mogar@cern.ch>
