.TH AI-RC "1" "April 2015" "ai-rc" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-rc \- Generate OpenStack environment variables

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-rc [OPTION]... \fI--same-project-as HOST\fR | [OS_PROJECT]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-rc is a tool which generates the environment variables used to interact with the OpenStack
service via command line. Setting these variables in your terminal will allow you to use the
"openstack" CLI and also "ai-bs-vm" and "ai-kill-vm" to create and destroy puppetized VMs,
respectively.
.LP
Users can provide direcly the name of the OpenStack project they want to generate environment
variables for as a positional argument. Alternatively, using option
.B [-s|--same-project-as]
followed by a hostname will
generate variables for the project this host belongs to.

In addition to these two optional arguments, 'ai-rc'
can also be run without providing any, in which case variables for the user's personal
project will be printed.
Please note that in most cases you would like to evaluate the output returned by 'ai-rc'
e.g.
.B eval $(ai-rc *options)
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --config
Path to the config file (default /etc/ai/ai.conf).
.TP
.B --same-project-as
Host to get the Openstack project name from.
.TP
.B -c, --cshell
Generate C-shell commands on stdout.
.TP
.B -b, --bshell
Generate Bourne shell commands on stdout. This is the default if SHELL
does not look like it’s a tcsh shell
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.LP
.I Advanced options:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.
.TP
.B --pdb-hostname
FQDN of the PuppetDB instance to use.
.TP
.B --pdb-port
Port of the PuppetDB instance to use.
.TP
.B --pdb-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for PuppetDB operations.
.TP
.B --dereference_alias
Dereference aliases in urls
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable debug messages.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Host not found in DNS
.TP
.B 3
Host doesn't have "cern_os_tenant" fact in PuppetDB

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Print to STDOUT environment variables for the project "LXPLUS"
$ ai-rc "LXPLUS"

.TP
.B Print to STDOUT environment variables for the project "LXPLUS" and force the output to be Bourne shell commands
$ ai-rc "LXPLUS" --bshell

.TP
.B Generate (and evaluate) variables for the Openstack project where foo1.cern.ch belongs to
$ eval $(ai-rc --same-project-as foo1.cern.ch)

.TP
.B Generate (and evaluate) variables for your personal OpenStack project
$ eval $(ai-rc)

.TP
.B Generate (and evaluate) variables in C-Shell format for your personal OpenStack project
$ eval $(ai-rc -c)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any problem with this tool, please open a support
call on SNOW (Functional Element "Configuration Management").

.SH AUTHOR
Alberto Rodriguez Peon <alberto.rodriguez.peon@cern.ch>

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-bs-vm (1), ai-kill-vm (1)
