.TH AI-RENAME-HOST "1" "February 2013" "AI-RENAME-HOST" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-rename-host \- Rename a physical host before reinstall

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-rename-host [OPTION]... HOSTNAME"

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-rename-host is a tool to rename a physical host before reinstalling it. It will not rename a host 'live', and the host
must be immediately reinstalled after using the tool. It has no effect on virtual nodes.
.LP
Apart from some of the options described below, the user has to
provide a hostname or a fully qualified domain name for the old hostname and the new hostname.
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --config
Path to the config file (default /etc/ai/ai.conf).
.TP
.B --jfdi
Don't check alarmed state before renaming the host.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.LP
.I Advanced options:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.
.TP
\fB\-\-foreman-hostname\fR FQDN
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-foreman-port\fR PORT
Port of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-foreman-timeout\fR INT
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations.
.TP
.B --pdb-hostname
FQDN of the PuppetDB instance to use.
.TP
.B --pdb-port
Port of the PuppetDB instance to use.
.TP
.B --pdb-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for PuppetDB operations.
.TP
.B --roger-hostname
Hostname of the Roger server
.TP
.B --roger-port
Port of the Roger server
from.
.TP
.B --roger-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for the Roger server
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Enable debug messages.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 10
Error loading config file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Rename host foo1.cern.ch to foo2.cern.ch
$ ai-rename-host foo1.cern.ch foo2.cern.ch

.TP
.B Rename host foo1.cern.ch to foo2.cern.ch, and don't bother checking alarm states
$ ai-rename-host --jfdi foo1.cern.ch foo2.cern.ch


.SH BUGS
Any problem or feature requests? Open a support call on Jira
(https://its.cern.ch/jira/) project "Agile Infrastructure".

.SH AUTHOR
Gavin McCance <gavin.mccance@cern.ch>

