.TH AI-REBUILD-VM "1" "November 2014" "ai-rebuild-vm" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-rebuild-vm \- Command-line tool to rebuild Puppetized OpenStack VMs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-rebuild-vm"
[OPTION]...
\fI[-i IMAGE]\fR \fI[-a]\fR
VMNAME

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-rebuild-vm is a Python command line tool to rebuild Puppet-managed
Foreman-enabled OpenStack VMs.
.LP
When a virtual machine is rebuilt, the system disk is recreated with a
clean image but the name, the DNS entry and the AD registration are
kept so the time it takes for the node to be ready is much shorter.
.LP
This operation is conceptually equivalent to a re-installation of a physical
box.
.LP
Please note that rebuilding VMs that booted from a volume is currently
not supported.
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B OpenStack environment variables
The following environment variables must be set: OS_AUTH_URL,
OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION, OS_PROJECT_DOMAIN_ID, OS_PROJECT_NAME and
OS_AUTH_TYPE. All of them should be already configured via profile.d if you're
on an aiadm node, giving you access by default to your personal project. In
order to switch tenants the recommended way is to use ai-rc (man ai-rc).
.TP
.B ""
This command is only compatible with OS_IDENTITY_API_VERSION=3 and
OS_AUTH_TYPE='v3kerberos'. Please also note that OS_AUTH_URL has to be aligned
to the identity API version that has been specified. Sourcing legacy
password-based OpenRCs might lead to a corrupted environment that could prevent
this tool from working as expected.
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.SH OPTIONS
The behaviour of the tool can be customized by the following
parameters.

.LP
.I Optional parameters:
.TP
.B -i, --nova-image
OpenStack image name or id to base the rebuild on. If no image is specified
the existing one will be used. This argument is mutually exclusive with
{ --slc5 | --slc6 | --cc7 }
.TP
.B --slc5, --slc6, --cc7
Latest released OpenStack image for the particular distribution.
These arguments are mutually exclusive with '--nova-image'.
.TP
.B -a, --keepalarms
Don't disable alarms before triggering the rebuild process.

.LP
.I Other optional parameters:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.
.TP
.B --certmgr-hostname
Hostname of the Cert Manager server that the virtual machine will request a
certificate from.
.TP
.B --certmgr-port
Port of the Cert Manager server that the virtual machine will request a
certificate from.
.TP
.B --certmgr-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Cert Manager operations.
.TP
.B -d, --dryrun
Don't do the requests that alter data (host staging, VM creation request
and alarm masking).
.TP
.B --foreman-hostname
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
.B --foreman-port
Port of the Foreman instance to use -- must support Kerberos.
.TP
.B --foreman-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.TP
.B --nova-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Nova operations.
.TP
.B --roger-appstate
Roger application state upon rebuild (defaults to "build").
.TP
.B --roger-hostname
FQDN of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-port
Port of the Roger instance to use.
.TP
.B --roger-timeout
Timeout (in seconds) for Roger operations.
.TP
.B --dereference_alias
Dereference aliases in URLs.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Be chatty.

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 2
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 3
Bad user environment (no OpenStack's openrc.sh has been sourced)
.TP
.B 4
Kerberos TGT not-existent or expired.
.TP
.B 5
FQDN is invalid.
.TP
.B 10
Foreman registration failed.
.TP
.B 20
Host staging failed.
.TP
.B 30
Nova rebuild failed.
.TP
.B 50
Openstack authorization error

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Rebuild a VM using the current image
ai-rebuild-vm higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Rebuild a VM using an user-specified image
ai-rebuild-vm -i "SLC6 Server - x86_64 [130920]" higgsbox.cern.ch

.TP
.B Rebuild a VM with the latest CC7 image available and keep the alarm state
ai-rebuild-vm --cc7 higgsbox.cern.ch -a

.SH REPORTING BUGS
If you experience any issue please open a support call on SNOW (Functional
Element "Configuration Management"). 

.SH SEE ALSO
ai-bs-vm (1), ai-kill-vm (1), ai-remote-power-control (1), ai-rc (1)
