.TH AI-SET-FE "1" "October 2013" "ai-set-fe" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ai-set-fe \- Search for a SNOW functional element and set it for your hostgroup

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "ai-set-fe [--hostgroup HG] FEname"

.SH DESCRIPTION
ai-set-fe searches for a SNOW functional element and sets it for your hostgroup
.LP
It will hunt for a known list of FEs from SNOW, and return any that match the specified FEname substring.
If the substring returns a unique FE and the hostgroup is specified, it will set the 'fename'
parameter on that hostgroup in Foreman. This is used by the alarm system to to identify the correct
functional element when opening alarms. ai-dump also reports the value for hosts.
.LP
Use the special value 'Ignore' if you never want SNOW alarms - i.e. this will cause the SNOW producer to drop all
exceptions for the hostgroup and never create a ticket.
.LP
.I Prerequisites:
.TP
.B Valid Kerberos5 ticket
The user invoking the script must have a valid (existent and not expired)
Kerberos ticket in the file pointed by the environment variable KRB5CCNAME
(should be fine if you're on aiadm).

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP

.TP
.B FEname
The FE name substring to match, or the full FE name to add in case of the --jfdi option. If needed, can be quoted. Or 'Ignore' to never create alarms.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP

.TP
.B -h, --help
Display usage and exit.
.TP
.B --hostgroup
The hostgroup to set the FE for. Both top-level and fully specified sub-hostgroup are allowed.
.TP
.B --jfdi
Force the given FEname, and do not verify against the list returned by SNOW.

.LP
.I Advanced options:
.TP
The following parameters are for advanced users and debugging.

.TP
\fB\-\-foreman-hostname\fR FQDN
FQDN of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-foreman-port\fR PORT
Port of the Foreman instance to use.
.TP
\fB\-\-foreman-timeout\fR INT
Timeout (in seconds) for Foreman operations.
.TP
.B --config
Path to the config file (default /etc/ai/ai.conf).
.TP
.B --dereference_alias
Dereference aliases in urls

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
All operations executed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Bad command line.
.TP
.B 2
Cannot open SNOW cache file.
.TP
.B 3
Cannot match given FEname substring to any valid SNOW FE.
.TP
.B 4
The supplied hostgroup was not found in Foreman.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Search for all FEs with the substring 'conf'
$ ai-set-fe conf

.TP
.B Set the 'Configuration Management' FE for hostgroup 'punch/fore'.
$ ai-set-fe config --hostgroup punch/fore

.TP
.B Set the 'Classic Shabba' FE for hostgroup 'punch/fore', ignoring the fact that there is no SNOW FE of that name (even though, clearly, there ought to be).
$ ai-set-fe "Classic Shabba" --hostgroup punch/fore --jfdi


.SH BUGS
Any problem? Open a support call on Jira
(https://its.cern.ch/jira/) project "Agile Infrastructure".

.SH AUTHOR
Gavin McCance <gavin.mccance@cern.ch>

